# Makefile

## Makefile Syntax

```makefile
target: dependencies
    command
    command
```

- **target**: The name of the file generated by the makefile.
- **dependencies**: The files required to generate the target file.
- **command**: The command to generate the target file. It must be preceded by a tab without any spaces.

## For windows users

1. use **'del'** instead of **'rm'** to delete files.
2. use **'&&'** instead of **';'** to run multiple commands in a single line.

## Some problems faced while writing makefiles

1.  Missing separator error

        make: *** missing separator.  Stop.

    This error is caused by the use of spaces instead of tabs in the makefile. Make sure to use tabs instead of spaces.
    In vs code you can convert indentation to tabs by pressing `ctrl + shift + p` and then typing `convert indentation to tabs` and selecting `convert indentation to tabs` from the list.

2.  No rule to make target error

        make: *** No rule to make target 'file'. Stop.

    This error is caused when the file mentioned in the makefile is not present in the directory. Make sure to check the file name and the path to the file.

3.  Multiple target patterns error

        make: *** multiple target patterns. Stop.

    This error is caused when there is a space in the target name. Make sure to remove the space from the target name.

4.  No such file or directory error

        make: *** No such file or directory: 'file'. Stop.

    This error is caused when the file mentioned in the makefile is not present in the directory. Make sure to check the file name and the path to the file.

5.  Error in makefile

        make: *** [file] Error 1

    This error is caused when there is an error in the makefile. Make sure to check the syntax of the makefile.

## References

- [GNU Make Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html)
- [Makefile Tutorial](https://makefiletutorial.com/)